# Feature-Engineering-Cardinality

    If you work in predictive modeling, you will surely have encountered nominal variables with many distinct values. Think for example of the ZIP code or street name of a person, the university or high-school they studied at, the sector of a business, or even family names or bank account numbers of persons. In the United States for example, there are approximately 43.000 zip codes. Such features could be very predictive as it could be telling that someone lives in a certain village or works in a certain business sector. We call such nominal variables with more than 100 distinct values “high-cardinality attributes”.

    Despite their potential, unfortunately such variables are typically discarded in predictive modeling. The main reasons are: firstly, including these attributes by standard dummy encoding increases the dimensionality of the data to such an extent that either the classification technique is unable to process them (with for example decision trees), or if one would use some regularized linear technique that is able to cope with huge dimensions, it leads to a model with thousands or even millions of features, thereby losing the often required comprehensibility aspect. Secondly, for some variable one can try to group the values in some semantic manner, like grouping on a state level for ZIP codes or to the first two digits when using NACE business activity codes, but that is only possible if the data is not anonymized, and additionally one loses important information.
